GIVE THEM A SANDWICH.

Be Friendly—Even with the Hostage Taker.

LET’S SAY A GUY IS desperate for money, so he borrows a gun and sets out to rob the local bank.

A teller pulls the alarm, and the cops show up.

In response, he points the gun at a customer and tells the cops to get out or he’ll shoot the hostage.

They leave the building, but soon there are a dozen police out front and back, and a SWAT team with snipers.

The hostage taker is trapped.

The cops leave a suitcase with a phone in it by the door, and it starts ringing.

When the robber opens the suitcase and picks up the phone, a soothing voice on the other end of the line says,

“My name is Terry, I’m with the police. Are you OK? Do you need a doctor? No? Good, I’m glad you’re all right.

What about the other people inside, do any of them need a doctor?”

The robber is now talking to a hostage negotiator, who is going to try to get him to let everyone go and surrender peacefully.

And almost always, the negotiation works.

Before modern hostage negotiation methods, it was about fifty-fifty whether someone would get shot—maybe the bad guy, maybe a cop, or, worst of all, an innocent civilian.

Nowadays, more than 95 percent of these situations are resolved peacefully, with the bad guy captured, no shots fired, and everyone going home safely.

That’s pretty amazing. How do they do it?


Well, Terry starts by expressing concern for the welfare of the bad guy.


The first thing the hostage taker hears is that Terry is worried about him.

But Terry’s plan goes way past that. She is going to keep him talking. About anything.

Maybe the hostage taker asks for a getaway car.

“OK,” Terry says, “I have to send that request up to my boss. I don’t know if he’ll agree. It could take a while.”

So he waits.

Meanwhile, Terry is happy to listen to anything he wants to talk about. And she has lots of questions.

“How is everyone doing? What made you decide to do this? What did you need the money for?”

She is sympathetic to whatever he says.

“Yeah, I know what it’s like when you can’t pay the rent. Especially when you have people depending on you.”

After a couple of hours, the hostage taker starts to get hungry. He tells Terry that he wants a sandwich.

“OK, we can work on that. What’s your favorite kind of sandwich? Do you have a place in mind?”

She’s been waiting for him to ask for that sandwich; she tries to keep the note of triumph out of her voice.

About an hour later, his favorite sandwich is delivered by a SWAT officer, and Terry’s back on the phone.

“Hey, how’d you like the sandwich? Awesome, right? Those are so good. Look, I need your help.

The lieutenant here is kind of mad at me for getting you that sandwich. I don’t mind taking some heat, because you seem like a decent guy.

中文： 「但你能不能幫我一個忙？如果你放一個人走，真的會幫我向上司交代。」

But could you do me a favor? What if you let one of those people go? That would really help me out with my boss.”


Nine times out of ten, he does. Almost everyone does.

Every law enforcement force that trains hostage negotiators uses this technique of reciprocity.


Hostage negotiation teams keep a running list of positive police actions, or PPAs, they can use as justification to ask for a reciprocal favor.

“We gave you the water you asked for and got your girlfriend on the phone…. Bro, time for you to do us a solid.”

It works because everybody, even a lifelong criminal, feels the obligation to repay generosity.

Even to the police, who gave him that sandwich and are going to put him in jail.

You may be thinking, Great, but does this work for me in my daily life?

Oh yes.
Here’s another example.
