中文： 給他們一個三明治。 
GIVE THEM A SANDWICH.

中文： 即使對劫持人質者也要友善。 
Be Friendly—Even with the Hostage Taker.

中文： 假設有個男人急需錢用，所以他借了一把槍去搶劫當地銀行。 
LET’S SAY A GUY IS desperate for money, so he borrows a gun and sets out to rob the local bank.

中文： 銀行職員按了警鈴，警察隨即趕到。 
A teller pulls the alarm, and the cops show up.

中文： 作為回應，他把槍指向一位顧客，並告訴警察離開否則他會射殺人質。 
In response, he points the gun at a customer and tells the cops to get out or he’ll shoot the hostage.

中文： 警察離開了大樓，但很快大樓前後就有十幾名警察和帶狙擊手的特警隊。 
They leave the building, but soon there are a dozen police out front and back, and a SWAT team with snipers.

中文： 劫持者被困住了。 
The hostage taker is trapped.

中文： 警察在門口留了一個裝有電話的手提箱，電話開始響起。 
The cops leave a suitcase with a phone in it by the door, and it starts ringing.

中文： 當劫匪打開手提箱拿起電話時，電話另一端傳來一個溫和的聲音說： 
When the robber opens the suitcase and picks up the phone, a soothing voice on the other end of the line says,

中文： 「我叫Terry，是警察。你還好嗎？你需要醫生嗎？不需要？很好，我很高興你沒事。」 
“My name is Terry, I’m with the police. Are you OK? Do you need a doctor? No? Good, I’m glad you’re all right.

中文： 「那裡面其他人呢，有誰需要醫生嗎？」 
What about the other people inside, do any of them need a doctor?”

中文： 劫持者現在正在和人質談判專家通話，對方會試圖讓他釋放所有人並和平投降。 
The robber is now talking to a hostage negotiator, who is going to try to get him to let everyone go and surrender peacefully.

中文： 而且幾乎總是，談判會成功。 English: And almost always, the negotiation works.

中文： 在現代人質談判方法出現之前，被槍擊的機率大約是五五波——可能是壞人、警察，或者最糟的是無辜民眾。 
Before modern hostage negotiation methods, it was about fifty-fifty whether someone would get shot—maybe the bad guy, maybe a cop, or, worst of all, an innocent civilian.

中文： 現在，超過95%的這類情況都能和平解決，壞人被捕、沒有開槍，大家都安全回家。 
Nowadays, more than 95 percent of these situations are resolved peacefully, with the bad guy captured, no shots fired, and everyone going home safely.

中文： 這相當驚人。他們是怎麼做到的呢？ 
That’s pretty amazing. How do they do it?

中文： 嗯，Terry一開始就表達對壞人福祉的關心。 
Well, Terry starts by expressing concern for the welfare of the bad guy.

中文： 劫持者聽到的第一件事就是Terry在擔心他。 
The first thing the hostage taker hears is that Terry is worried about him.

中文： 但Terry的計劃遠不止於此。她會一直讓他說話，什麼都行。 
But Terry’s plan goes way past that. She is going to keep him talking. About anything.

中文： 也許劫持者要求一輛逃亡車。 
Maybe the hostage taker asks for a getaway car.

中文： 「好的，」Terry說，「我必須把這個請求呈報給我的上司。我不知道他會不會同意，可能需要一點時間。」 
“OK,” Terry says, “I have to send that request up to my boss. I don’t know if he’ll agree. It could take a while.”

中文： 所以他等待著。 
So he waits.

中文： 與此同時，Terry很樂意聽他想談的任何事情，而且她有很多問題。 
Meanwhile, Terry is happy to listen to anything he wants to talk about. And she has lots of questions.

中文： 「大家還好嗎？你為什麼決定這麼做？你需要錢做什麼？」 
“How is everyone doing? What made you decide to do this? What did you need the money for?”

中文： 她對他說的任何話都表示同情。 
She is sympathetic to whatever he says.

中文： 「是啊，我知道付不起房租是什麼感覺，尤其是還有家人要靠你。」 
“Yeah, I know what it’s like when you can’t pay the rent. Especially when you have people depending on you.”

中文： 幾小時後，劫持者開始餓了。他告訴Terry他想要一個三明治。 
After a couple of hours, the hostage taker starts to get hungry. He tells Terry that he wants a sandwich.

中文： 「好的，我們可以處理這個。你最喜歡哪種三明治？你有想去的地方嗎？」 
“OK, we can work on that. What’s your favorite kind of sandwich? Do you have a place in mind?”

中文： 她一直在等他提出要這個三明治，試圖不讓聲音裡透露出勝利的語氣。 
She’s been waiting for him to ask for that sandwich; she tries to keep the note of triumph out of her voice.

中文： 大約一小時後，他最喜歡的三明治由特警隊員送達，Terry又回到電話上。 
About an hour later, his favorite sandwich is delivered by a SWAT officer, and Terry’s back on the phone.

中文： 「嘿，三明治怎麼樣？很棒對吧？那些真的很好吃。聽著，我需要你的幫助。」 
“Hey, how’d you like the sandwich? Awesome, right? Those are so good. Look, I need your help.

中文： 「這裡的中尉有點生我的氣，因為我給了你那個三明治。我不介意挨罵，因為你看起來是個不錯的人。」 
The lieutenant here is kind of mad at me for getting you that sandwich. I don’t mind taking some heat, because you seem like a decent guy.

中文： 「但你能不能幫我一個忙？如果你放一個人走，真的會幫我向上司交代。」 English: But could you do me a favor? What if you let one of those people go? That would really help me out with my boss.”
中文： 十次中有九次，他會照做。幾乎每個人都會。 English: Nine times out of ten, he does. Almost everyone does.
中文： 每個訓練人質談判員的執法單位都會使用這種互惠技巧。 English: Every law enforcement force that trains hostage negotiators uses this technique of reciprocity.
中文： 人質談判團隊會維持一份正面警察行動（PPA）的清單，用來作為要求對方回報的理由。 English: Hostage negotiation teams keep a running list of positive police actions, or PPAs, they can use as justification to ask for a reciprocal favor.
中文： 「我們給了你想要的水，也幫你聯絡到女朋友……兄弟，該你幫我們一個忙了。」 English: “We gave you the water you asked for and got your girlfriend on the phone…. Bro, time for you to do us a solid.”
中文： 這之所以有效，是因為每個人，即使是終身罪犯，也會覺得有義務回報善意。 English: It works because everybody, even a lifelong criminal, feels the obligation to repay generosity.

中文： 即使是給他三明治然後要把他關進監獄的警察也一樣。 
Even to the police, who gave him that sandwich and are going to put him in jail.

中文： 你可能在想，這很好，但這對我日常生活中有用嗎？ 
You may be thinking, Great, but does this work for me in my daily life?
中文： 哦，是的。 English: Oh yes.
中文： 這裡是另一個例子。 English: Here’s another example.
