Be Friendly—Even with the Hostage Taker.
Let’s say a guy is desperate for money, so he borrows a gun and sets out to rob the local bank.
A teller pulls the alarm, and the cops show up.
In response, he points the gun at a customer and tells the cops to get out or he’ll shoot the hostage.
They leave the building, but soon there are a dozen police out front and back, and a SWAT team with snipers.
The hostage taker is trapped.
The cops leave a suitcase with a phone in it by the door, and it starts ringing.
When the robber opens the suitcase and picks up the phone, a soothing voice on the other end of the line says,
“My name is Terry, I’m with the police. Are you OK? Do you need a doctor? No? Good, I’m glad you’re all right. What about the other people inside, do any of them need a doctor?”
The robber is now talking to a hostage negotiator, who is going to try to get him to let everyone go and surrender peacefully.
And almost always, the negotiation works.


Before modern hostage negotiation methods, it was about fifty-fifty whether someone would get shot—maybe the bad guy, maybe a cop, or, worst of all, an innocent civilian.
Nowadays, more than 95 percent of these situations are resolved peacefully, with the bad guy captured, no shots fired, and everyone going home safely.
That’s pretty amazing. How do they do it?


Well, Terry starts by expressing concern for the welfare of the bad guy.
The first thing the hostage taker hears is that Terry is worried about him.
But Terry’s plan goes way past that.
She is going to keep him talking about anything.
Maybe the hostage taker asks for a getaway car.
“OK,” Terry says, “I have to send that request up to my boss. I don’t know if he’ll agree. It could take a while.”
So he waits.
Meanwhile, Terry is happy to listen to anything he wants to talk about.
And she has lots of questions.
“How is everyone doing? What made you decide to do this? What did you need the money for?”
She is sympathetic to whatever he says.
“Yeah, I know what it’s like when you can’t pay the rent. Especially when you have people depending on you.”


After a couple of hours, the hostage taker starts to get hungry.
He tells Terry that he wants a sandwich.
“OK, we can work on that. What’s your favorite kind of sandwich? Do you have a place in mind?”
She’s been waiting for him to ask for that sandwich; she tries to keep the note of triumph out of her voice.
About an hour later, his favorite sandwich is delivered by a SWAT officer, and Terry’s back on the phone.
“Hey, how’d you like the sandwich? Awesome, right? Those are so good.”
“Look, I need your help. The lieutenant here is kind of mad at me for getting you that sandwich.”
“I don’t mind taking some heat, because you seem like a decent guy. But could you do me a favor? What if you let one of those people go? That would really help me out with my boss.”
Nine times out of ten, he does.
Almost everyone does.
Every law enforcement force that trains hostage negotiators uses this technique of reciprocity.
Hostage negotiation teams keep a running list of positive police actions, or PPAs, they can use as justification to ask for a reciprocal favor.
“We gave you the water you asked for and got your girlfriend on the phone…. Bro, time for you to do us a solid.”
It works because everybody, even a lifelong criminal, feels the obligation to repay generosity.
Even to the police, who gave him that sandwich and are going to put him in jail.
You may be thinking, Great, but does this work for me in my daily life?
Oh yes.


Next part (the neighbor story):

When Life Gives You a Sour Neighbor, Make Lemonade.
ATTIA: My husband, Isaiah, and I got married during the COVID-19 pandemic.
We started looking for a house shortly afterward, in the fall of 2020.
The housing market was up dramatically in Traverse City.
People from Detroit and Chicago flocked to northern Michigan looking for a less crowded region of the country.
After several months of futile looking—everything was out of our price range—we gave up.
But does anyone really give up looking for the thing they really want?
As a young married couple, we wanted a place of our own rather than a rental apartment, but we felt hopeless.
To further torture myself, I continued playing the “Zillow game” and scanned listings every evening.
In the spring of 2021, much to my surprise, a house popped up on the peninsula just north of Traverse City, on the same road where Isaiah’s dad grew up.
It was right between Isaiah’s two cherry and apple farms, and near the one-thousand-plus acres he farms for others.
I showed him the listing, and it turned out to be the very house his dad’s family once owned.
It was still outside our price range, but we had to go tour it—especially since Isaiah’s father had passed away a few years earlier.
We fell in love instantly—not just with the house but with the thought of raising our family in the same home his dad had grown up in.
The seller was a sweet older woman, and she loved the thought of us returning to my husband’s family roots.
I wrote her a card emphasizing the emotional value to us.
She became determined to help us figure out how to afford it.
We were able to buy the house, to our delight.
I still send her big life updates, and she dropped off a gift when our son was born, excited to celebrate that next generation in the home she cherished.
Fast-forward to the summer of 2021, as we were moving into our dream home.
On day two of unpacking, I was walking out to my car to grab another box when I saw a man who looked to be in his sixties determinedly striding toward me.
I started to smile and introduce myself, but he quickly moved on to tell me that our driveway was on his property.
He launched into a diatribe on how ridiculous it was that my driveway and water well used easements on his property.
It turned out that the upset man was our new neighbor, Jared.
He and his wife had purchased the vacant land next door just a few months before we bought our home.
I must admit that as he went on about property rights and easements, my back went up a little.
We were literally just moving in.
Did Jared really have to ruin the bliss of our first days in our first home?
Couldn’t he have been neighborly first?
And hadn’t the easements been in place for more than fifty years?
It had nothing to do with any action we had taken.
Now, looking at it from his point of view, I can see the lunacy of how they carved up the two properties and understand his frustration at having his property divided up with our easement.
To have my long driveway and well going through his property for a significant length is ridiculous and sets up both neighbors for conflict.
It would have made much more sense to change the layout of the properties to avoid this mess, but unfortunately the mess was made, and we had to live with it.
But I didn’t think of that at the time, because I was too busy being upset to try to understand why he was upset.
At that time, my hopes for a neighborly relationship went up in smoke.
In my mind, Jared became a person to dread, someone who seemed more interested in starting fights than making friends.
For months, every time we encountered him, he seemed to bring up his unhappiness over the easements, stressing his rights to us.
It got so bad that we made a concentrated effort to avoid him, retreating into the house when he was around.
I felt a sense of frustration each time I saw him.
I had never envisioned having a difficult relationship with a neighbor before.
How had this happened? And what could I do?
